# ka-rp 


Machine Learning tutorial covers basic and advanced concepts, specially designed to cater to both students and experienced working professionals.

This machine learning tutorial helps you gain a solid introduction to the fundamentals of machine learning and explore a wide range of techniques, including supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning.

Machine learning (ML) is a subdomain of artificial intelligence (AI) that focuses on developing systems that learn—or improve performance—based on the data they ingest. Artificial intelligence is a broad word that refers to systems or machines that resemble human intelligence. Machine learning and AI are frequently discussed together, and the terms are occasionally used interchangeably, although they do not signify the same thing. A crucial distinction is that, while all machine learning is AI, not all AI is machine learning.
What is Machine Learning?

Machine Learning is the field of study that gives computers the capability to learn without being explicitly programmed. ML is one of the most exciting technologies that one would have ever come across. As it is evident from the name, it gives the computer that makes it more similar to humans: The ability to learn. Machine learning is actively being used today, perhaps in many more places than one would expect.
Recent Articles on Machine Learning

Table of Content

    Introduction
    Data and It’s Processing
    Supervised learning
    Unsupervised learning
    Reinforcement Learning
    Dimensionality Reduction
    Natural Language Processing
    Neural Networks
    ML – Deployment
    ML – Applications
    Misc

Features of Machine learning

    Machine learning is data driven technology. Large amount of data generated by organizations on daily bases. So, by notable relationships in data, organizations makes better decisions.
    Machine can learn itself from past data and automatically improve.
    From the given dataset it detects various patterns on data.
    For the big organizations branding is important and it will become more easy to target relatable customer base.
    It is similar to data mining because it is also deals with the huge amount of data.

Introduction :

    Getting Started with Machine Learning
    An Introduction to Machine Learning
    What is Machine Learning ?
    Introduction to Data in Machine Learning
    Demystifying Machine Learning
    ML – Applications
    Best Python libraries for Machine Learning
    Artificial Intelligence | An Introduction
    Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence
    Difference between Machine learning and Artificial Intelligence
    Agents in Artificial Intelligence
    10 Basic Machine Learning Interview Questions

Data and It’s Processing:

    Introduction to Data in Machine Learning
    Understanding Data Processing
    Python | Create Test DataSets using Sklearn
    Python | Generate test datasets for Machine learning
    Python | Data Preprocessing in Python
    Data Cleaning
    Feature Scaling – Part 1
    Feature Scaling – Part 2
    Python | Label Encoding of datasets
    Python | One Hot Encoding of datasets
    Handling Imbalanced Data with SMOTE and Near Miss Algorithm in Python
    Dummy variable trap in Regression Models

Supervised learning :

    Getting started with Classification
    Basic Concept of Classification
    Types of Regression Techniques
    Classification vs Regression
    ML | Types of Learning – Supervised Learning
    Multiclass classification using scikit-learn
    Gradient Descent :
        Gradient Descent algorithm and its variants
        Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD)
        Mini-Batch Gradient Descent with Python
        Optimization techniques for Gradient Descent
        Introduction to Momentum-based Gradient Optimizer
    Linear Regression :
        Introduction to Linear Regression
        Gradient Descent in Linear Regression
        Mathematical explanation for Linear Regression working
        Normal Equation in Linear Regression
        Linear Regression (Python Implementation)
        Simple Linear-Regression using R
        Univariate Linear Regression in Python
        Multiple Linear Regression using Python
        Multiple Linear Regression using R
        Locally weighted Linear Regression
        Generalized Linear Models
        Python | Linear Regression using sklearn
        Linear Regression Using Tensorflow
        A Practical approach to Simple Linear Regression using R
        Linear Regression using PyTorch
        Pyspark | Linear regression using Apache MLlib
        ML | Boston Housing Kaggle Challenge with Linear Regression
    Python | Implementation of Polynomial Regression
    Softmax Regression using TensorFlow
    Logistic Regression :
        Understanding Logistic Regression
        Why Logistic Regression in Classification ?
        Logistic Regression using Python
        Cost function in Logistic Regression
        Logistic Regression using Tensorflow
    Naive Bayes Classifiers
    Support Vector:
        Support Vector Machines(SVMs) in Python
        SVM Hyperparameter Tuning using GridSearchCV
        Support Vector Machines(SVMs) in R
        Using SVM to perform classification on a non-linear dataset
    Decision Tree:
        Decision Tree
        Decision Tree Regression using sklearn
        Decision Tree Introduction with example
        Decision tree implementation using Python
        Decision Tree in Software Engineering
    Random Forest:
        Random Forest Regression in Python
        Ensemble Classifier
        Voting Classifier using Sklearn
        Bagging classifier

Unsupervised learning :

    ML | Types of Learning – Unsupervised Learning
    Supervised and Unsupervised learning
    Clustering in Machine Learning
    Different Types of Clustering Algorithm
    K means Clustering – Introduction
    Elbow Method for optimal value of k in KMeans
    Random Initialization Trap in K-Means
    ML | K-means++ Algorithm
    Analysis of test data using K-Means Clustering in Python
    Mini Batch K-means clustering algorithm
    Mean-Shift Clustering
    DBSCAN – Density based clustering
    Implementing DBSCAN algorithm using Sklearn
    Fuzzy Clustering
    Spectral Clustering
    OPTICS Clustering
    OPTICS Clustering Implementing using Sklearn
    Hierarchical clustering (Agglomerative and Divisive clustering)
    Implementing Agglomerative Clustering using Sklearn
    Gaussian Mixture Model

Reinforcement Learning:

    Reinforcement learning
    Reinforcement Learning Algorithm : Python Implementation using Q-learning
    Introduction to Thompson Sampling
    Genetic Algorithm for Reinforcement Learning
    SARSA Reinforcement Learning
    Q-Learning in Python

Dimensionality Reduction :

    Introduction to Dimensionality Reduction
    Introduction to Kernel PCA
    Principal Component Analysis(PCA)
    Principal Component Analysis with Python
    Low-Rank Approximations
    Overview of Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA)
    Mathematical Explanation of Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA)
    Generalized Discriminant Analysis (GDA)
    Independent Component Analysis
    Feature Mapping
    Extra Tree Classifier for Feature Selection
    Chi-Square Test for Feature Selection – Mathematical Explanation
    ML | T-distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (t-SNE) Algorithm
    Python | How and where to apply Feature Scaling?
    Parameters for Feature Selection
    Underfitting and Overfitting in Machine Learning

Natural Language Processing :

    Introduction to Natural Language Processing
    Text Preprocessing in Python | Set – 1
    Text Preprocessing in Python | Set 2
    Removing stop words with NLTK in Python
    Tokenize text using NLTK in python
    How tokenizing text, sentence, words works
    Introduction to Stemming
    Stemming words with NLTK
    Lemmatization with NLTK
    Lemmatization with TextBlob
    How to get synonyms/antonyms from NLTK WordNet in Python?

Neural Networks :

    Introduction to Artificial Neutral Networks | Set 1
    Introduction to Artificial Neural Network | Set 2
    Introduction to ANN (Artificial Neural Networks) | Set 3 (Hybrid Systems)
    Introduction to ANN | Set 4 (Network Architectures)
    Activation functions
    Implementing Artificial Neural Network training process in Python
    A single neuron neural network in Python
    Convolutional Neural Networks
        Introduction to Convolution Neural Network
        Introduction to Pooling Layer
        Introduction to Padding
        Types of padding in convolution layer
        Applying Convolutional Neural Network on mnist dataset
    Recurrent Neural Networks
        Introduction to Recurrent Neural Network
        Recurrent Neural Networks Explanation
        seq2seq model
        Introduction to Long Short Term Memory
        Long Short Term Memory Networks Explanation
        Gated Recurrent Unit Networks(GAN)
        Text Generation using Gated Recurrent Unit Networks
    GANs – Generative Adversarial Network
        Introduction to Generative Adversarial Network
        Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)
        Use Cases of Generative Adversarial Networks
        Building a Generative Adversarial Network using Keras
        Modal Collapse in GANs
    Introduction to Deep Q-Learning
    Implementing Deep Q-Learning using Tensorflow

ML – Deployment :

    Deploy your Machine Learning web app (Streamlit) on Heroku
    Deploy a Machine Learning Model using Streamlit Library
    Deploy Machine Learning Model using Flask
    Python – Create UIs for prototyping Machine Learning model with Gradio
    How to Prepare Data Before Deploying a Machine Learning Model?
    Deploying ML Models as API using FastAPI
    Deploying Scrapy spider on ScrapingHub

ML – Applications :

    Rainfall prediction using Linear regression
    Identifying handwritten digits using Logistic Regression in PyTorch
    Kaggle Breast Cancer Wisconsin Diagnosis using Logistic Regression
    Python | Implementation of Movie Recommender System
    Support Vector Machine to recognize facial features in C++
    Decision Trees – Fake (Counterfeit) Coin Puzzle (12 Coin Puzzle)
    Credit Card Fraud Detection
    NLP analysis of Restaurant reviews
    Applying Multinomial Naive Bayes to NLP Problems
    Image compression using K-means clustering
    Deep learning | Image Caption Generation using the Avengers EndGames Characters
    How Does Google Use Machine Learning?
    How Does NASA Use Machine Learning?
    5 Mind-Blowing Ways Facebook Uses Machine Learning
    Targeted Advertising using Machine Learning
    How Machine Learning Is Used by Famous Companies?

Misc :

    Pattern Recognition | Introduction
    Calculate Efficiency Of Binary Classifier
    Logistic Regression v/s Decision Tree Classification
    R vs Python in Datascience
    Explanation of Fundamental Functions involved in A3C algorithm
    Differential Privacy and Deep Learning
    Artificial intelligence vs Machine Learning vs Deep Learning
    Introduction to Multi-Task Learning(MTL) for Deep Learning
    Top 10 Algorithms every Machine Learning Engineer should know
    Azure Virtual Machine for Machine Learning
    30 minutes to machine learning
    What is AutoML in Machine Learning?
    Confusion Matrix in Machine Learning

Prerequisites to learn machine learning

    Knowledge of Linear equations, graphs of functions, statistics, Linear Algebra, Probability, Calculus etc.
    Any programming language knowledge like Python, C++, R are recommended.

FAQs on Machine Learning Tutorial
Q.1 What is Machine learning and how is it different from Deep learning ?

Answer:

    Machine learning develop programs that can access data and learn from it. Deep learning is the sub domain of the machine learning. Deep learning supports automatic extraction of features from the raw data.

Q.2. What are the different type of machine learning algorithms ?

Answer:

        Supervised algorithms: These are the algorithms which learn from the labelled data, e.g. images labelled with dog face or not. Algorithm depends on supervised or labelled data. e.g. regression, object detection, segmentation.
        Non-Supervised algorithms: These are the algorithms which learn from the non labelled data, e.g. bunch of images given to make a similar set of images. e.g. clustering, dimensionality reduction etc.
        Semi-Supervised algorithms: Algorithms that uses both supervised or non-supervised data. Majority portion of data use for these algorithms are not supervised data. e.g. anamoly detection.

Q.3. Why we use machine learning ?

Answer:

    Machine learning is used to make decisions based on data. By modelling the algorithms on the bases of historical data, Algorithms find the patterns and relationships that are difficult for humans to detect. These patterns are now further use for the future references to predict solution of unseen problems.

Q.4. What is the difference between Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning ?

Answer:

    ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE 	MACHINE LEARNING
    Develop an intelligent system that perform variety of complex jobs. 	Construct machines that can only accomplish the jobs for which they have trained.
    It works as a program that does smart work. 	The tasks systems machine takes data and learns from data.
    AI has broad variety of applications. 	ML allows systems to learn new things from data.
    AI leads wisdom. 	ML leads to knowledge.


Are you passionate about data and looking to make one giant leap into your career? Our Data Science Course will help you change your game and, most importantly, allow students, professionals, and working adults to tide over into the data science immersion. Master state-of-the-art methodologies, powerful tools, and industry best practices, hands-on projects, and real-world applications. Become the executive head of industries related to Data Analysis, Machine Learning, and Data Visualization with these growing skills. Ready to Transform Your Future? Enroll Now to Be a Data Science Expert!



> _featured by 25_
